Basic Commands

1. pwd — When you first open the terminal, you are in the home directory of your user.
To know which directory you are in, you can use the “pwd” command. It gives us the absolute path, which means the path that starts from the root. 
The root is the base of the Linux file system. 
It is denoted by a forward slash( / ). 
The user directory is usually something like "/home/username".

2. ls — Use the "ls" command to know what files are in the directory you are in.
You can see all the hidden files by using the command “ls -a”.

3.cd — Use the "cd" command to go to a directory. 
If you just type “cd” and press enter, it takes you to the home directory. To go back from a folder to the folder before that, you can type “cd ..” .

4. mkdir & rmdir — Use the mkdir command when you need to create a folder or a directory. 
For example, if you want to make a directory called “DIY”, then you can type “mkdir DIY”. 

5. rm - Use the rm command to delete files and directories. 
Use "rm -r" to delete just the directory. It deletes both the folder and the files it contains when using only the rm command.

6. touch — The touch command is used to create a file. It can be anything, from an empty txt file to an empty zip file. 

7. cp — Use the cp command to copy files through the command line. 
It takes two arguments: The first is the location of the file to be copied, the second is where to copy.

8.mv — Use the mv command to move files through the command line. We can also use the mv command to rename a file.
For example, if we want to rename the file “text” to “new”, we can use “mv text new”. It takes the two arguments, just like the cp command.

9.cat — Use the cat command to display the contents of a file. It is usually used to easily view programs.

10.df — Use the df command to see the available disk space in each of the partitions in your system.

11.chmod — Use chmod to make a file executable and to change the permissions granted to it in Linux.

12. echo — The "echo" command helps us move some data, usually text into a file. 

13.uname — Use uname to show the information about the system 

14.its used to give the output of the file.

2.Directories:

1./bin is a standard subdirectory of the root directory that contains the executable (i.e., ready to run) programs
2./mnt directory and its subdirectories are intended for use as the temporary mount points for mounting storage devices.
3./boot directory holds files used in booting the operating system. 
4./root is the home directory
5./usr has unique system resources
6./media directory contains subdirectories where removable media devices inserted into the computer are mounted.
7./var is a standard subdirectory of the root directory in Linux that contains files to which the system writes data during the course of its operation.
